In this Module, I learned how data shapes archaeology. Firstly I learned how we explore and calculate data, and how to test data using tools such as the Chi-square test. I learned that data is what guides us to collect and interpret the past. Archaeology isn’t just about finding things, it’s about how professionals craft the record through the methods they use. Furthermore, data isn’t neutral. This means the way we collect, sort, and describe data shapes how the past is understood in archeology. (Hearne and Holtorf, 2005). 
        A win I have accomplished in this module is running the Ghost of Petrie notebook assignment. Watching the computer complete His writing felt very surreal and uncanny, as if AI can revive the voice of someone long gone so many years ago. It makes you wonder, its power. This makes me think about a concept I came across in one of the readings, which is a phrase I learned called “the magic of the past”. This means this very “revival of the past” of Petrie is what draws people to archeology. Although, here it came digitally. 
           Leading on to this discussion, it makes you wonder how AI can be both very insightful and misleading. Seeming smart at first, but it creates mixed ideas and perplexed sentences. This is one of the reasons archeologists must look at archeology with great responsibility, without altering our records and data, so it does not become “mixed ideas and perplexed sentences”.
       On the other hand, my failure includes technical issues. Loading the CSV files, and the lagging notebook assignments. Minor errors, although they caused trouble in my learning. 
For example, running blocks that did not produce any output, so I was not sure if anything worked. Regardless, this process showed me how much archaeology that is based digitally on computers depends on understanding the systems we use. This was similar to the concept of the readings I had read. It has mentioned that archaeology’s methods can both enchant and limit us, and we can only interpret what we successfully capture. 
        Apart from my wins and failures, I managed to take into the feedback given for this module. I tried to add more details to my notes and files, to show specifically what test had errors, rather than vaguely describing my errors with short sentences. Furthermore, I tried the tests multiple times, and took help from our online Discord chat, and asked for any help.
           The most challenging part of this module has been studying the technical and data portion of this course, and interpreting what it means or is trying to tell me. For example, when any output is unclear, in the notebooks, and concepts such as what creates codes, and outputs in simulations specifically mean in archeology. 
           For example, in Week 6 I ran a coding data set simulation where the code was supposed to generate the results data. At first nothing appeared on the plots, which made me think the code was not working. I realized very later on, the results did not exist so the plot had no data to display. So, this showed me each step relies on the previous step. Although I also realized, letting someone know of these errors would have saved me a  lot of time. After many trial and errors, I was more careful about checking each step and interpreting the outputs in a critical way than just assuming no plot means failure.
    In this Module, I completed all Weeks work up to date, although submission ran late as usual, in the hope of updating my work and keep working on it, which did not amount to anything. So, I missed a week's worth of work and did not submit. Although, I was up to date on all the readings, participating in the annotations, podcasts, and data notebook assignments.
         Overall this module taught me data is more than just numbers. It's about interpreting and creating knowledge in the world of archeology. The challenge has been how to learn in this world. For example learning statistically through chi square tests, and datasets. 
